# Conclusion and Recommendations

The submarine telecommunication cable network is an essential
infrastructure that urgently needs to be protected, but academia and
international legislation should not dismiss the negative social and
economical tensions caused by STC failure, especially when the
intentional attack(eg military and terrorist) can be achieved very
easily.

This paper modeled the global STC network and analyzed the topological
vulnerabilities from 2 arguments(cable, landing station) in 2 visibility
levels(country, local) as the mean of assessing the robustness of
alternative cables when the primary fails.

The study firstly analysis all the states(n=183) with STC connections,
the broadband threshold of internet shortage in the next few years
remains low, but around 48% of the countries are formed in the most
vulnerable class. The most vulnerable states must improve their
telecommunication infrastructure quality to minimize the probability of
internet blackout at the state level. Also, a further territorial
investigation shows the high dependency on a handful of key landing
stations on international internet connectivity. In addition, we also
compared the impact of emerging internet services
infrastructure(star-link), their usage as the emergency substitute might
back the additional connectivity. From the standpoint of cable shortage
in internet vulnerable countries and increasing participation of
international tech giants recently, future research will also take into
consideration of larger international geopolitical contestation.

However, these findings need to be considered in light of certain
limitations. There are deviations from real observed for nations with
domestically abundant internet content resources, like the US, or that
have adopted the same language as huge numbers of internet users, such
as China. Consequently, the estimation in the model could result in
excessive or inadequate network flows. On the other hand, modeling the
local accessibility of internet connectivity goes beyond the network's
topological structure and may also take into account marine sciences and
local/international laws.

Due to the short duration of the project lifecycle, the model will be
expanded in future research to explore the role that CDN can play in
mitigating access to the consequences of major STC disruptions. Future
work will be also devoted to the analysis of the caching affecting
international data transmission efficiency during internet peak hours.

As data communication plays a crucial role more than ever, the
importance and vulnerability of the STC should seriously be recognized
by relative experts from oceanography to geopolitics.
