# Discussion

This paper studies the topological structure of the STC network and
analyzes its vulnerability at both country level and route level. This
section aims to comment on the findings and reflect on the limitations
due to their real-world implications.

Firstly, the country level network consists of a wider range of areas by
averaging the geographical differences and accessibility to the cable
repair resources. For instance, different water conditions measurements,
waterway and no-shipping zone, rich and poor countries. A more explicit
analysis would help to clarify the damage results. Secondary, landlocked
states are not included in this study, this was partly because of the
lack of construction data in TTC. Consequently, the international
bandwidth purely flowing through the TTC network is ignored. Thirdly,
the property status for some STCs are not publicly available. The
estimation was based on the cable length, year of construction, budget
cost and the status of existing cables in the nearby water. The actual
capacity in usage is less than estimation since the most cited metrics
are potential capacity(max possible bandwidth) rather than lit
capacity(actual running bandwidth).

As the focus on the topological structure of the STC network. Testing
results of the shortest-path analysis from UK to China and global
betweenness centrality analysis using different distance measurements to
simulate the assortment of focus on the routing strategies. The shortest
path finding only reveals some theoretical paths, the routers in the
real-world also need to consider factors such as instantaneous
availability of the cables, communication jamming and pre-defined rules
in the routing table etc. The overlap of a handful of landing stations
with the high value of betweenness centrality also suggests the
potential risk of workload overwhelming on the popular landing stations
when they are chosen by multiple routing policies simultaneously.

However, STC failure could also be dependent on varieties of
geographical situations, which will be expanded in future research to
analyze the role of high volumes of fishing, cargo shipping, water
saltiness, and earth tectonic hazard frequency. This study was motivated
by the analysis of the route pattern in the real-world distribution when
the weakness of STC can be targeted, the identification of adjustments
for the quality infrastructure setup through avoidance of the missing
connections. Yet, these arguments do not go far enough.

To overcome the vulnerability, redundancy is not the only available
option to fill the missing capacity gap due to the absence of a primary
cable. Instead, redundant cables are especially weak against human-led
destruction. States can influence the cable deploying companies with a
more frequent cable status patrol or by adding prevent cautions such as
setting up cable protection zones to prevent the damage from fishing
dredge or anchoring. Yet these precautions do not exclude the risk of
natural hazards. Avoiding the seismic, volcanic, and landslide zone on
the cable path is meaningful to prevent destruction from the geologic
activities before laying the cables. Thus the open communication and
negotiation between ISPs and cable operators before the proper
deployment helps to reduce the uncertainty of the network stability.

Another aspect also helps to better understand the vulnerability is the
countermeasures in the internet backbone landing stations while facing
major events such as unexpected hostile attacks on infrastructure or
internet blackouts due to the natural hazard. Moreover, the dependency
on energy infrastructure and cascading effects on the bandwidth
deteriorates in the nearby states, combined with the side effect on
other internet-dependent businesses such as government administration,
banking services and other digital services. Leading to a higher
requirement for cable and relative infrastructure protection.

Additionally, developing emergency planning and keeping open
communication with the damage control crew and in-hand repair
tools(materials, vessels) are the keys to maintaining broadband
connectivity. Moreover, the satellite internet communication devices
also help to enhance the robustness against STC failure. In view of
this, Â installing the redundant cables and utilizing satellite internet
services as the backup technology by driving the diversification of the
broadband access entrance can be considered a bright side to the global
internet connectivity resilience.
